
Python Data Structures and Algorithms

String Algorithms:
String search
Data Structures to store strings

Dynamic Programming Problems:
1. Find length of the longest substring of a given string of digits, such that sum of digits in the first half and second half is the same.

2. Given an empty plotof size 2 x n. We want to place tiles  such that the entire plot is covered. Each tile is of the size 2 x 1 and can 
be placed either horizontally or vertically.Write a function to accept n as input and return the total number of ways in which we can place
the tiles.

3. If size of the plot in 2 is changed to 3 * n, then what changes we need to do in the solution?

4. Consider a game where player can score 3,5 or 10 points in one move. Given a total score N, find the total number of unique ways to
reach the score of N.

5. What is the total number of ways to reach a particular score if (10,3) and (3,10) are considered the same?

6. Given an array of integers, write a function that returns the maximum of the sub array, such that the elements are contiguous.

7. Edit distance: Given two strings str1 and str2 and following three operations that can be performed on str1.
Insert, Remove and Replace. Find the minimum number of operations required to convert str1 to str2.

8. Given a two dimensional array, find the total number of paths possible from top-left cell to botton-right cell if we are allowed to
move only rightward and downward.

9. Given a two dimensional grid where there is a horizontal and vertical road after each kilometer. You are at theorigin(0,0) and want to 
goto point (x,y). What is the total number of unique routes that you can take if you are allaowed to move in forward and upward directions?

10. A variation to the problem asked in 9 is that, at some places there is repair going on and hence you cannot take those routes.
Unavailable route information may be given in the form of point array(eg from point (2,1) to point (3,1) the route is not available).

11. What if in question 10 you are allowed to move in diagonal direction as well? How will you logic change for recursive and dynamic 
solutions?

12. Minimum chess moves problem: In chess we have designed a special piece that can move either like a knight or like a king.
Given that P is in a particular cell and you wanna move it to another cell then what is the minumum number of moves it takes P to go 
from source to destination. Write a function that accepts source and destination cells and returns the minimum number of moves
it will take P to move from source to destination.

13. String interleaving: String C is said to be interleaving of String A and B if it contains all the characters in of A and B and the
relative order of characters of both the strings are preserved in C.
Given three strings A, B and C, write a function to check if the third string is the interleaving of first and second strings.

14. Given two strings print all the inter leavings of the string.

15. Subset sum: Given an array of non negative integers and a positive  numver X, determine if there exists a subset of elements of the
array with sum equal to X.

16. Longest Common Subsequence: A subsequence of string S, is a set of characters that appear in the string in left to right order,
but not necessarily consecutively. A string of length n can have 2^n subsequences. A common subsequence of two strings is a subsequence 
that is subsequence of both strings. A longest common subsequence (LCS) is a common subsequence of maximal length. 
Given two strings, write a function that returns the total number of characters in their Longest Common Subsequence(LCS).

17. Given an array of integers write code that returns length of longest monotonically increasing subsequence in array.

18. In question 17 also print longest monotonically increasing subsequence in the array.

19. A sequence is bitonic if it is first monotonically increasing and then monotonically decreases. 
Write a function that accepts an array of integers and returns the length of the longest bitonic subsequence in the array.
Please note that a sequence in increasing order is bitonic with empty decreasing part and similarly a sequence in decreasing order 
is bitonic with empty increasing part.

20. In question 19 also print the longest bitonic subsequence in an array.

21. Coin Change Problem: Given an infinite supply of coins of N different denominations values(v1, v2, ..., vN). Find the minimum
number of coins that sum upto a number S.

23. Modify the question 21 to find total number of ways we can make the change of amounts using the coins of given denominations.

24. Cutting a rod: Given an iron rod of a certain length and price of selling rods of different lengths in the market, how should
we cut the rod so that the profit is maximized.

25. 0-1 Knapsack problem: Given n items in a shop, where each item has a weight and a value. A theif breaks into the shop with knapsack.
The theif can carry a maximum weight C. Items cannot be broken or taken partially. Each item has to be either picked or left completely.
What is the maximum value a theif can carry?

26. Longest Palindromic Subsequence: A subsequence of a string is th sequence of characters in the same relative order as they appear in
the original string. Given a string, find the length of the longest subsequence that is also palindrome.

27. Dropping eggs probem: We have two identical eggs and access to a 100 floor building. We dont know how strong the eggs are. Eggs 
can be really strong and may not break even when dropped from 100th floor or they may be fragile and break if dropped from first floor
itself. We want the highest floor from where eggs can be dropped without breaking it. In the process, we are allowed to break both the 
eggs. Question is, at least how many times do we need to drop, to find the answer(highest floor from where eggs start breaking)

28. Maximum value contiguous subsequence: Given an array of n numbers, give an algorithm for finding a contiguous subsequence A(i)...A(j)
for which the sum of the elements is maximum.

29. Given a sequence of n numbers A(1)...A(n), give an algorithm for finding contiguous subsequence A(i)..A(j) for which the sum of the
elements in the subsequence is maximum. Here the condition is we should not select two contiguous numbers.

30. Given a sequence of n numbers A(1)...A(n), give an algorithm for finding contiguous subsequence A(i)..A(j) for which the sum of the
elements in the subsequence is maximum. Here the condition is we should not select three contiguous numbers.

31. There are n petrol stations along a circular route, where the amount of petrol at station i is petrol[i]. You have a car with an 
unlimited petrol tank and it costs cost[i] of petrol to travel from station i to its next station (i+1). You begin the journey with
empty tank at one of the petrol stations. Return the starting petrol station's index if you can travel around the circuit once, otherwise
return -1.

32. Catlan Number: How many binary search trees are there with n vertices?

33. Integer knapsack problem(with duplicate permitted)

34. 0-1 Knapsack problem: For problem 33, how do we solve it if the items are not duplicated (not having an infinite numbers of items
for each type, and each item is allowed to be used 0 or 1 time)?

35. Box stacking: Assume that we are given a set of n rectangular 3-d boxes. The dimensions of ith box are height 'hi', width 'wi' and
depth 'di'. Now we want to create stack of boxes which is as tall as possible, but we can only stack a box on top of another box if 
the dimensions of the 2-d base of the lower box are each strictly larger than those of the 2-d base of the higher box. We can rotate
a box so that any side functions as its base. It is possible to use multiple instances of the same type of the box.

36. Subset sum: Given a sequence of n positive numbers A(1)...A(n) give an algorithm which checks whether there exists a subset of
A whose sum of all numbers is T?

37. Given a set of n integers and the sum of all the numbers is at most if. Find the subset of these n elements whose sum is exactly 
half of the total sum of n numbers.

38: Partition: Problem is to determine whether a given set can be partitioned into two subsets such that  the sum of elements in both 
subset is the same.

39. Counting Boolean Parenthesizations: Let us assume that we are given a boolean expression consisting of symbols 'true','false',
'and','or','xor'. Find the number of ways to parenthesize the expression such that it will evaluate to true.

40. Optimal binary search tree.

41. Floyd warshall algorithm.

42. Optimal strategy for a game: Consider a row of n coins of value v1....vn where n is even(since its a two player game!). We play this 
game with the opponent. In each turn, a player selects either first or last coin from the row, removes it from the row prermanently,
and recieves the value of the coin. Determine the maximum possible ammount of money we can definitely win if we move first.

43. Longest palindrome substring: Given a string A, we need to find the longest sub-string of A such that the reverse of it is exactly 
the same.

44. Given two string S and T, give an algorithm to find the number of times S appears in T. It is not compulsory that all characters of 
S should appear contiguous to T

45. Maximum size square sub-matrix with all 1s: Given a matrix with 0 and 1, give an algorithm for finding the maximum size square
sub-matrix with all the 1s.

46.Maximum size sub-matrix(not necessarily square!) with all 1s.

47. Maximum sum sub-matrix: Given nxn matrix M of positive and negative integers, give an algorithm to find the sub-matrix with largest
sum possible.

48. Finding optimal number of jumps to reach last element: Given an array, start from the first element and reach the last by jumping.
The jump length can be at most the value at the current position in the array. The optimum result is when you reach the goal in the minimum 
number of jumps.





SQL using MySQL
SparkSQL using 
